Halloween 2021
===

_Published November 22nd, 2021_

Halloween is a major event around these parts. Fact. Living next to the [Olympic Hills Haunt](https://www.instagram.com/olympichillshaunt/) guarantees it. 
 
I've been putting off writing this for too long, so let’s jump to the highlights:
 
I live next door to the [Olympic Hills Haunt](https://www.instagram.com/olympichillshaunt/). Every year the owners out do themselves, even in  pandemic time. 
We have a permit to close the street. With the Haunt as the anchor, it turns into a major celebration. 
I ordered 200 full size candy bars and naively worried it would be too many. It was not. I should have had 300.
Amelia was dressed as Sky from Paw Patrol. She actually didn't know what Paw Patrol was before Halloween, but is now her favorite show and she sings the theme song in the car. 
Amelia went trick or treating. The entire blocked, more or less, adopted a low-contact, curbside approach to candy exchange. Not only was this more safe in light of the pandemic, it was also more efficient.
At one point the police drove through with lights on. I thought we were going to be told to shut it all down, but they just wanted to see the Haunt. (The lights were presumably to avoid hitting any trick or treaters.)
Highlight: a young child looking through my selection of full size candy and then being disappointed I had no Skittles. Next year I will have Skittles. 
Other highlight: another young child pushing past me and digging through the boxes of candy bars on their own. Presumably for Skittles. 
I wore a giant panda suit. Email me for pictures.
 
That’s all for now folks. 
 
Stay safe,
 
Aleks