---
title: Tweeting Through It
buttondown_id: em_1cthzenn3v8z0v0564d84qvbkk
---

<!-- buttondown-editor-mode: plaintext --><p>So far this year, work has really felt like standing in a muddy pond. </p><p>My team is in the middle of a large reorganization of responsibilities. Feedback from annual reviews is feeding back into my goals and priorities. Requests are vague and many.</p><p>There is a path forward (there always is) but it is hard to grasp. Like an object lost in the cloud of silt and murk at the bottom of the pond. </p><p>For the last few weeks, my instinct has been to frantically reach for it. Dig in the mud. Ask questions. Throw out ideas. Meetings. Concerns. Scoop it out. </p><p>But this just creates more clouds in the water. I'm no closer to finding what I'm looking for. </p><p>I feel the temptation to bias for action so acutely sometimes. There is an unknown. There is uncertainty. I need to DO something about it.</p><p>The dirt only settles when I stop moving. The clouds are not really there. Everything eventually settles to the bottom. There it is. There is the idea.</p><hr><p>At home things are good, though crowded at times. Amelia is cycling between being a 6:30 early riser and impossible to move before 8 am. She has been recorded as tardy and the first at school within the same week. </p><p>After school, I struggle to squeeze in a bit of violin practice while she tries to squeeze in as much play time with her little brother as possible. </p><p>She is participating in a practice challenge at her music school, so we're trying to get in at least a little bit of violin practice every night. We haven't been perfect, but we've been doing pretty well, and the results have been pretty amazing. Whereas she had historically pretty shy during her group classes, the week before she volunteered to play Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star in front of everyone.  </p><p>Jonny is unstoppable. For him there is no greater joy than screaming while pounding back and forth down the hallway. He tries to climb everything. He balances on his rocking horse like a surf board. Block stacks appear in unexpected places around the house. <br><br>Unlike Amelia at his age, he is ferocious eater and wants to try everything he sees, which only seems to accelerate the aforementioned physical feats. </p><p>We did all make it up to Whistler for the winter break. Unfortunately, the weather very soggy and ski conditions were pretty poor. (Except for the day we went up the mountain for sightseeing, then it was unbelievably cold and windy.) Amelia did one day of lessons and that was the end of that for her. It was still a good time. The village there is cozy as always. The rec center pool was just as I had remembered it from my youth. Would still do it again. </p><p>Sadly it ended with the longest border crossing times I've ever experienced: we were in line for 3.5 hours. </p><hr><p>I have found writing a little bit hard to get through. I think I missed the party a bit, but I've decided to see if I can figure out this whole Twitter/X thing, as it feels more approachable for the little snippets I currently have the energy for. Apparently Jack is out and it is owned by this car salesman named Elon? </p><p>The opening bit I first tried writing as a series of tweets. Will see how it goes. </p><p></p><p>Those are all the words I have. </p><p>Stay safe,</p><p>Aleks </p>