---
title: Effort
buttondown_id: em_63wmcy69qv878svgbs6vydten4
---

<!-- buttondown-editor-mode: fancy --><p>Here is that longer update.</p><p>I started my new old job at Amazon, as a Principal Engineer in AWS Cryptography. It is good to be back and I am energized by the work there is to do, in a way that I was not at Stripe. I’m less thrilled with the new 5 day return-to-office mandate that came out shortly after I joined, but that’s how it goes.</p><p>In July I was blessed with the opportunity to officiate my little brother’s wedding. Armed with my ordination by the American Marriage Ministries and some words that I rehearsed daily for several months until they felt just right on my tongue, I did my best to earn the honor bestowed upon me. I am forever grateful for that opportunity.</p><p>The elation was short lived, however, as several days later I received a call from my aunt that my mother was in the emergency room with a suspected pulmonary embolism. The doctors acted quickly to remove a large clot from her lungs, but we did not realize at the time that this was only the start of a long journey through the medical system that continues to this day. Although doctors believed they had treated the underlying condition, over the next several weeks my mother’s health continued to decline. As we cycled between home care, the emergency room, and assisted nursing facilities she gradually lost the ability to walk. I stopped counting the trips to the ER after 5. Through a meandering path through different diagnoses and tests, and more luck than I am comfortable with, we eventually learned she had late stage ovarian cancer.</p><p>I’ll jump ahead to the good news. Those who have given money to all those “cure for cancer” causes can rest assured their money has been put to good use. Modern day chemotherapy is a bit of a miracle drug. My mother is gaining strength every day. Going home to a normal life in another month or so seems more and more likely to happen.</p><p>I’ve put off writing anything on this topic because it didn’t feel like my story to tell. But if I don’t say anything, there is a big hole there.</p><p>Anyway, it’s been coming at me from a few sides. Sometimes I need some breaths in my calm down corner.</p><p>I may pay someone to put up the Christmas lights this year.</p><p>Jonny turned 2 a couple of weeks ago. Amelia will be 6 in another couple of weeks.</p><p>I hope you and yours are doing well. I hope to get another email out for Christmas.</p><p>Until then,</p><p>Aleks</p>